>> Ifill: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION CONDEMNED THE
SHELLING OF A U.N. SCHOOL
HOUSING REFUGEES IN GAZA.
AT LEAST 15 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN THE BLASTS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY:
A REBOUNDING U.S. ECONOMY
GROWING 4% AFTER A WINTER SLUMP.
>> Ifill: PLUS, A "NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORT ON HOW EUROPE HAS
PAID MORE THAN $100 MILLION TO
AL-QAEDA IN RANSOMS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE WAR BETWEEN
RAGED ON TODAY,
WITH STRIKES ON A UNITED NATIONS
SCHOOL AND A BUSY MARKET IN
GAZA.
AFTER MORE THAN THREE WEEKS OF
FIGHTING, THE PALESTINIAN DEATH
TOLL REACHED 1,359 AND IN
ISRAEL, 56 SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN
KILLED, ALONG WITH THREE
CIVILIANS.
BODIES WERE CARRIED ONE-BY-ONE
OUT OF A CROWDED SHOPPING AREA
IN THE EASTERN GAZA STRIP TODAY.
THE ISRAELI AIRSTRIKE HIT WHEN
PEOPLE WERE TAKING ADVANTAGE OF
A FOUR-HOUR CEASE-FIRE, BUT IT
APPLIED ONLY TO CERTAIN AREAS.
HAMAS ALSO BROKE IT BY FIRING AT
LEAST 20 ROCKETS DURING THAT
TIME PERIOD.
THE ATTACK FOLLOWED ONE OF THE
ISRAELI MILITARY'S MOST ACTIVE
DAYS SINCE THE FOUR WEEK
CONFLICT BEGAN.
EARLIER IN THE DAY IT WAS A U.N.
SCHOOL THAT CAME UNDER FIRE.
AT LEAST 16 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND MORE THAN 100 INJURED.
THE SCHOOL WAS ONE OF DOZENS IN
GAZA GIVING SHELTER TO 200,000
DISPLACED PALESTINIANS.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE WERE
>> ( translated ): CHILDREN,
MEN, EVERYONE WAS DISMEMBERED AT
THE ABU HUSSEIN SCHOOL.
WHY WERE THEY KILLED?
WHAT DID THEY DO?
>> Woodruff: A
THE GROUND SAID THE LIGHT OF DAY
REVEALED THE ASSAULT CAME FROM
ISRAELI TANKS.
>> WE HAVE VISITED THE SITE AND
GATHERED EVIDENCE, WE HAVE
ANALYZED FRAGMENTS, EXAMINED
CRATERS AND OTHER DAMAGE.
OUR INITIAL ASSESSMENT IS THAT
IT WAS ISRAELI ARTILLERY THAT
HIT OUR SCHOOL IN WHICH 3,300
PEOPLE HAD SOUGHT REFUGE.
>> Woodruff: ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCE SPOKESMAN PETER LERNER
SAID HIS COUNTRY'S FORCES ACTED
ONLY IN RESPONSE TO A MORTAR
SHELL LAUNCHED AT THEM FROM NEAR
THE SCHOOL.
>> THERE IS A CHALLENGE ON THE
GROUND WHERE THIS TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION IS EXPLOITING THE
REALITY ON THE GROUND,
EXPLOITING THE CIVILIAN
ENVIRONMENT AND EXPLOITING THE
PEOPLE OF GAZA THEMSELVES.
WE'RE UP AGAINST A HUGE
CHALLENGE AND CLEARLY THAT CAN
BE TRAGIC RESULTS THAT WE HAVE
SEEN.
>> Woodruff: STILL, THE SHELLING
OF THE U.N. SCHOOL DREW
WIDESPREAD CONDEMNATION,
INCLUDING FROM THE WHITE HOUSE.
AND IN NEW YORK, THE U.N. DEPUTY
SECRETARY GENERAL EXPRESSED
SHOCK.
>> FOR ME THIS IS A MOMENT WHERE
E TOREALLY HAVE TO SAY, "ENOUGH
SEARCH FOR THE RIGHT WORDS TO
CONVINCE THOSE WHO HAVE THE
POWER TO STOP THIS.
>> Woodruff: MOSQUES WERE AGAIN
AN ISRAELI TARGET AND FIVE WERE
REDUCED TO RUBBLE.
IN DAYLIGHT, THE DESTRUCTION WAS
CLEAR.
KORANS LITTERED THE GROUND, THE
BUILDING'S MINARET WAS RESTING
ON A NEARBY APARTMENT BUILDING.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE COME
HERE TO PRAY AND DO THEIR DUTY
FIVE TIMES A DAY.
NOW WE HAVE BEEN DEPRIVED FROM
PRAYING DAWN, MORNING, NOON,
EVENING.
WHERE WILL PEOPLE PRAY NOW?
>> Woodruff: BUT ISRAELI
OFFICIALS SAID THE MOSQUES ARE
BEING USED BY MILITANT FIGHTERS.
THE ISRAELI MILITARY DROPPED
WARNING LEAFLETS IN GAZA, URGING
RESIDENTS TO KEEP AWAY FROM
TERRORISTS, AND TO REPORT ROCKET
LAUNCHERS, TUNNELS AND
AMMUNITION ARSENALS.
MEANWHILE, HAMAS CARRIED OUT ITS
OWN CAMPAIGN TO BOOST MORALE.
LAST NIGHT IT BROADCAST VIDEO
PURPORTEDLY SHOWING ITS FIGHTERS
USING A TUNNEL TO CARRY OUT AN
ATTACK ON AN ISRAELI OUTPOST
NEAR GAZA'S BORDER.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT REACTED TO MORE
CRITICISM LEVIED AT SECRETARY
JOHN KERRY BY ISRAELI MEDIA.
HE'S COME UNDER FIRE FOR HIS
FAILED ATTEMPT TO BROKER A
CEASE-FIRE.
HIS SPOKESWOMAN, MARIE HARF,
CALLED THE ATTACKS "SHOCKING AND
DISAPPOINTING."
>> THE HOURS ALL OF US HAVE
SPENT WITH THE SECRETARY IN
JERUSALEM AND TRYING TO GET
MIDDLE EAST PEACE, TRYING TO
WORK TO PROTECT SECURITY, THAT'S
WHY IT'S SO DISAPPOINTING IS
IT'S SO AT ODDS WITH REALITY AND
FLIES IN THE FACE OF EVERYTHING
WE HAVE BEEN TRYING TO DO.
>> Woodruff: DURING CEASE-FIRE
NEGOTIATIONS, KERRY HAD
SUGGESTED HAMAS' DEMAND TO END
THE BLOCKADE OF GAZA BE ON THE
TABLE, WHICH SET OFF THE ISRAELI
CRITICISM.
>> Ifill: AT LEAST 19 PEOPLE
WERE KILLED TODAY IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, AS NEW CLASHES FLARED
BETWEEN GOVERNMENT FORCES AND
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS.
MUCH OF THE VIOLENCE TARGETED
AREAS IN AND AROUND THE REBEL
STRONGHOLD OF DONETSK.
THE FIGHTING STOPPED
INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS FROM
REACHING THE MALAYSIAN AIRLINES
CRASH SITE FOR A FOURTH DAY.
IT'S BEEN TWO WEEKS SINCE THE
PLANE WENT DOWN.
A UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN
WARNED THE AREA IS BECOMING MORE
UNSAFE.
>> ( translated ): AT THE CRASH
SITE, TERRORISTS SET UP NEW
FIRING POSITIONS.
THEY MOVED A LOT OF HEAVY
ARTILLERY THERE AND MINED
ENTRANCES TO THIS TERRITORY.
IT PREVENTS INTERNATIONAL
EXPERTS FROM CARRYING OUT THEIR
WORK WHILE THEY ARE TRYING TO
START FULFILLING THEIR DUTIES
AND FIND CAUSES OF THE DOWNING
OF BOEING 777.
>> Ifill: UKRAINE'S BORDER WITH
RUSSIA IS ALSO THE SCENE OF
RUSSIAN TROOP MOVEMENT.
TODAY, NATO'S MILITARY COMMANDER
REPORTED THEIR NUMBERS HAVE
RISEN SHARPLY TO OVER 12,000.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA HAD HARSH
WORDS TODAY ABOUT THE NEW ROUND
OF U.S. SANCTIONS PRESIDENT
OBAMA IMPOSED YESTERDAY.
A STATEMENT FROM THE RUSSIAN
FOREIGN MINISTRY READ:
BOTH THE U.S. AND THE EUROPEAN
UNION IMPOSED NEW SANCTIONS
AGAINST RUSSIAN BANKS, ENERGY
AND DEFENSE FIRMS FOR RUSSIA'S
ROLE IN THE SEPARATIST UPRISING
IN UKRAINE.
>> Ifill: OFFICIALS IN LIBERIA
SHUT ALL THE COUNTRY'S SCHOOLS
AND QUARANTINED MORE COMMUNITIES
TO TRY TO STOP THE RAPID SPREAD
OF THE WORST OUTBREAK OF EBOLA
ON RECORD.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
ESTIMATES THE HIGHLY INFECTIOUS
DISEASE HAS KILLED AT LEAST 129
PEOPLE ACROSS THE WEST AFRICAN
COUNTRY.
IT HAS NO KNOWN CURE.
THE U.S. PEACE CORPS ANNOUNCED
TODAY IT'S WITHDWINGRALL OF
ITS VOLUNTEERS-- ABOUT 350
PEOPLE-- FROM LIBERIA, SIERRA
LEONE AND GUINEA AFTER TWO
VOLUNTEERS CAME IN CONTACT WITH
SOMEONE WHO DIED OF THE VIRUS.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES VOTED TO SUE
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY FOR
OVERSTEPPING HIS EXECUTIVE
POWERS.
THE LAWSUIT-- SPONSORED BY
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER-- CLAIMS
THE PRESIDENT FAILED TO UPHOLD
THE CONSTITUTION DURING THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
DEBATE ON THE HOUSE FLOOR WAS
HEATED AND COMPLETELY ALONG
PARTY LINES.
>> ONCE AGAIN REPUBLICANS ARE
PUTTING SPECIAL INTEREST IN THE
HOWLS OF IMPEACHMENT HUNGRY
EXTRESTS BEFORE THE NEEDS OF
THE LAWSUIT IS ONLY THE LATEST
PROOF OF HOUSE REPUBLICANS
CONTEMPT AND DISREGARD FOR THE
PRIORITIES OF THE AMERICA
PEOPLE.
>> THIS ISN'T ABOUT REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS.
IT'S ABOUT DEFENDING THE
CONSTITUTION THAT WE SWORE AN
OATH TO UPHOLD AND ACTING
DECISIVELY WHEN IT MAY BE
COMPROMISED.
>> Woodruff: ON THE ROAD IN
KANSAS CITY TODAY, PRESIDENT
OBAMA WEIGHED IN ON THE LAWSUIT,
CALLING IT A "POLITICAL STUNT"
AND SAYING IT WAS KEEPING
LAWMAKERS FROM DOING REAL WORK.
>> EVERY VOTE THEY'RE TAKING
LIKE THAT MEANS A VOTE THEY'RE
NOT TAKING TO ACTUALLY HELP YOU.
(LAUGHTER)
WHEN THEY'VE TAKEN 50 VOTES TO
REPEAL THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
THAT WAS TIME THAT COULD HAVE
BEEN SPENT WORKING
CONSTRUCTIVELY TO HELP YOU ON
SOME THINGS.
(APPLAUSE)
>> Woodruff: THE HOUSE ALSO
OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVED A
COMPROMISE BILL TO REFORM THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
AND IMPROVE VETERANS' ACCESS TO
HEALTH CARE.
THE $17 BILLION OVERHAUL NOW
HEADS TO THE SENATE, WHICH IS
EXPECTED TO ACT IT SOON BEFORE
HEADING HOME FOR THE AUGUST
RECESS.
>> Ifill: A MASSIVE CLEAN-UP
EFFORT WAS UNDERWAY TODAY IN LOS
ANGELES AFTER A MAJOR WATER MAIN
BREAK INUNDATED THE CAMPUS OF
U.C.L.A.
A NEARLY CENTURY-OLD PIPE
RUPTURED YESTERDAY AND FOR THREE
HOURS SPEWED NEARLY EIGHT
MILLION GALLONS OF WATER.
CREWS BEGAN CLEANING UP SIX
DAMAGED FACILITIES, INCLUDING A
RECENTLY-RENOVATED BASKETBALL
ARENA.
AN OFFICIAL FROM THE CITY'S
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER
WARNED REPAIRING THE PIPE COULD
TAKE SEVERAL DAYS.
>> WE FOUND THAT WE'VE GOT A
NUMBER OF VALVES LEAKING THROUGH
THAT HAS COMPLICATED GETTING
ACCESS TO THE REPAIR.
WE ARE CURRENTLY ASSESSING ALL
OPTIONS TO GET THE LEAKAGE DOWN
AND WHAT REPAIRS WE CAN MAKE.
WE CANNOT BEGIN ANY REPAIRS
UNTIL WE GET THE WATER
COMPLETELY DOWN AND WE'RE
WORKING ON THAT.
>> Ifill: CITY OFFICIALS HAVE
YET TO DETERMINE WHAT CAUSED THE
PIPE TO BURST.
MORE THAN 700 CARS PARKED IN
FLOODED UNDERGROUND GARAGES
REMAIN SUBMERGED.
>> Woodruff: STOCKS WERE MIXED
ON WALL STREET TODAY AFTER A
BETTER-THAN-EXPECTED REPORT ON
ECONOMIC GROWTH.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 31 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 16,880.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 20 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT NEARLY 4,463.
ND THE S&P ADDED A FRACTION OF A
POINT TO CLOSE AT 1,970.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
STATE OF THE ECONOMY RIGHT AFTER
THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR: HOW THE U.S. ECONOMY
LOOKS FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY,
ADDRESSING SEXUAL ASSAULTS ON
COLLEGE CAMPUSES, TERRORISTS
TURN TO KIDNAPPING EUROPEANS AS
A LUCRATIVE SOURCE OF REVENUE,
HOW TINY PIECES OF PLASTIC IN
BODY WASH AND FACIAL SCRUBS ARE
CAUSING BIG PROBLEMS IN THE
GREAT LAKES, PLUS, A COMEDIAN'S
TAKE ON RACE AND CHANGING
DEMOGRAPHICS.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. ECONOMY
REBOUNDED STRONGLY IN THE SECOND
QUARTER OF THIS YEAR.
BETTER, IN FACT, THAN MOST
PREDICTED.
NEW NUMBERS OUT TODAY SHOWED THE
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT GREW AT A
4% ANNUAL RATE.
THAT'S FAR BETTER THAN THIS
WINTER, WHEN THE ECONOMY SEEMED
TO SLUMP AND SHRANK BY ABOUT 2%.
STILL, THOSE NUMBERS DON'T QUITE
TELL YOU WHAT IT FEELS LIKE IN
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
JEFFREY BROWN GETS SOME REGIONAL
VIEWS.
>> Brown: IN ADDITION TO TODAY'S
NUMBERS, THE OVERALL JOBS
PICTURE HAS IMPROVED OF LATE,
AVERAGING A MORE THAN 200,000
INCREASE FOR FIVE STRAIGHT
MONTHS.
BUT AGAIN, QUESTIONS: WHAT KINDS
OF JOBS?
AND HOW LONG-LASTING IS THE
UPWARD SWING?
WE GET A SNAPSHOT OF THREE PARTS
OF THE COUNTRY, FROM: MARK
VITNER, MANAGING DIRECTOR AND
SENIOR ECONOMIST AT WELLS FARGO
IN CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA,
TOM BINNINGS, SENIOR PARTNER AT
"SUMMIT ECONOMICS" IN COLORADO
SPRINGS, COLORADO AND SHIRLEY
LEUNG, A BUSINESS EDITOR AT "THE
BOSTON GLOBE."
SHIRLEY, START US OFF HERE: DO
THE NUMBERS SHOWING AN UPSWING
JIBE WITH WHAT YOU SEE IN THE
NORTHEAST?
WHAT SECTORS ARE BETTER, WHAT
ARE STILL LAGGING?
>> YEAH, IN MASSACHUSETTS THE
ECONOMY HAS BEEN GOING VERY
STRONGLY, AND TODAY'S NUMBERS,
YOU KNOW, LOOK LIKE THE SAME
UPWARD GROWTH.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE SEEING
HERDO SEE IS THE
GROWTH IS VERY UNEVEN, YOU KNOW,
GREATER BOSTON FOLKS WHO WORK AT
TECH OR HOSPITALS DO VERY WELL.
IF YOU'RE OUT BEYOND THE GREATER
BOSTON INTO THE WESTERN PART OF
MASSACHUSETTS OR SOUTHERN PARTS
OF MASSACHUSETTS WHERE YOU DON'T
HAVE THOSE KIND OF SECTORS, THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS QUITE HIGH.
>> Brown: MARK VITNER, START
AT THE SOUTHEAST WHERE YOU ARE.
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
>> WELL, THE SOUTHEAST REALLY
GAINED MOMENTUM OVER THE LAST
YEAR AND I THINK IT'S PRETTY
TYPICAL OF WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN
THE COUNTRY.
THE FIRST FOUR YEARS ARE REALLY
TELLING.
WE WERE BAIRLG MAKING 2% GROWTH.
THE LAST YEAR IT'S BEEN ABOUT
2.5% AND WE'VE SEEN JOB GROWTH
PICK UP IN NORTH CAROLINA,
GEORGIA AND FLORIDA, PARTS OF
TENNESSEE, BUT IT IS MORE
URBAN-ORIENTED.
THE BIG AREAS, CHARLOTTE AND
RALEIGH, ATLANTA, NASHVILLE, ALL
THE BIG FLORIDA METRO AREAS,
MIAMI, ORLANDO, TAMPA, ARE ALL
DOING EXCEPTIONALLY WELL, BUT
THE RURAL AREAS ARE MOSTLY
LAGGING, IN A FEW OF THE BIG
CITIES MOST CLOSELY TIED TO THE
GOVERNMENT ARE STILL SLUGGISH
BECAUSE TO HAVE THE EFFECTS OF
SEQUESTRATION.
>> Brown: TOM BINNINGS,
COLORADO, THE LARGER MOUNTAIN
REGION, WHAT'S DRIVING THE
GROWTH THERE AND WHERE IS IT
HEADING?
>> I WOULD ECHO WHAT EVERYONE
ELSE HAS SAID.
THE DENVER, SALT LAKE CITY,
METRO AREA, THEY'RE DOING WELL
AND HAVE BEEN DOING WELL SEVERAL
YEARS.
ROBUST GROWTH, EMPLOYMENT GROWTH
AND YOU GET INTO THE OUTLYING
AREAS AND THE SECOND AND
THIRD-TIER COMMUNITIES AND
CITIES AND THE THE GROWTH IS
LAGGING.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT JOBS,
TOM.
DOES THAT FIT INTO THE PICTURE
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT?
>> ABSOLUTELY, THE JOB GROWTH IS
STRONG IN COLORADO AS WHOLE
BECAUSE OF THE DENVER METRO TO
WYOMING ALL THE WAY TO THE
BORDER.
A LOT OF PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL
SERVICES, WE HAVE A VIBRANT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY, A LOT OF
GROWTH IN THE LAST COUPLE OF
YEARS, ACCOMMODATIONS AND FOOD
SERVICE, SO OUR GROWTH IS PRETTY
BROAD-BASED THROUGHOUT THE
DIFFERENT ECONOMIC SECTORS.
>> Brown: AND MARK VITNER WHEN
YOU LOOK AROUND THE COUNTRY DO
YOU SEE OTHER LARGE REGIONS THAT
ARE A LITTLE SLOWER THAN YOURS
OR IS IT UNEVEN REGIONALLY?
>> IT IS UNEVEN REGIONALLY.
I THINK THERE ARE LARGE PARTS
THAT ARE GROWING AT A SLUGGISH
PACE.
WHEN YOU GET AWAY FROM BOSTON
AND NEW YORK CITY, IT'S REALLY,
REALLY SLUGGISH.
ATLANTIC CITY IS HAVING A REALLY
TOUGH TIME NOW AS IS A PART OF
NEW JERSEY.
DETROIT IS DOING BETTER IN THE
AUTO SECTOR BUT YOU GET AWAY
FROM THAT AND THINGS HAVEN'T
PICKED UP ALL THAT MUCH.
THERE'S A REAL CONTRAST BETWEEN
THE AREAS THATVE VIBRANT
ENERGY AND TECHNOLOGY SECTORS
AND THE AREAS THAT DON'T --
SEATTLE, SAN FRANCISCO, AUSTIN
ARE SOME OF THE FASTEST GROWING
METRO AREAS IN THE COUNTRY.
>> Brown: I GATHER THE GLOBE
DID A POLL RECENTLY LOOKING AT
PEOPLE'S ATTITUDES ABOUT THE
ECONOMY AND YOU FOUND SOME
DISCONNECT BETWEEN THE GROWTH
AND WHETHER PEOPLE REALLY ARE
EXPERIENCING IT?
>> YEAH, I MEAN, ABSOLUTELY.
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS 5.5% HERE
AND, YOU KNOW, THE HOUSING
MARKET HERE IS -- A LOT OF PARTS
OF IT IN GREATER BOSTON HAVE
MORE THANC
THEY ACTUALLY SURPASSED THE PEAK
FROM 2005.
BUT IN A RECENT SURVEY, EIGHT
OUT OF TEN VOTERS SAY THAT THEY
FEEL THAT THEIR PERSONAL
FINANCIAL SITUATION IS WORSE OR
THE SAME COMPARED TO LAST YEAR.
HALF THE RESPONDENTS IN OUR
SURVEY SAY THEY'RE CUTTING BACK
ON BASIC NECESSITIES.
I THINK ALSO PEOPLE ARE DINING
OUT LESS AND THEY'RE CUTTING
BACK ON DISCRETIONARY SPENDING.
>> Brown: IS THERE ANY SENSE
OF WHAT'S CAUSING THE
DISCONNECT?
>> I THINK THEY'RE A LITTLE
NERVOUS ABOUT THEIR JOBS, STILL.
I THINK THEY'RE A LITTLE NERVOUS
ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
WASHINGTON AND KIND OF REALLY
THE POLITICAL FUTURE OF THE
COUNTRY.
I THINK THE STOCK MARKET IS
REACHING SOME, YOU KNOW, NEW
HIGHS AND THEY'RE IN THE SURE
WHY THEY'RE GOING ALONG WITH IT,
SO I THINK THERE IS JUST A LOT
OF UNCERTAINTY.
>> Brown: TOM BINNINGS, DO YOU
HAVE A SENSE OF PUBLIC SENTIMENT
OUT THERE IN THAT REGION
VIS-A-VIS THE ECONOMY?
>> WELL, YEAH, I DO.
I THINK IT'S MORE POSITIVE BUT
THERE'S STILL CAUTION.
A LOT OF IT HAS TO DO WITH THE
AGING BABY BOOMERS, WITH
RETIREMENT LOOMING AHEAD, AND
JUST SORT OF TRYING TO FORECAST
THEIR OWN FUTURES.
AND THEN WE GET A LOT OF YOUNG
PEOPLE MOVING INTO COLORADO, AND
THEN THEY'RE GENERALLY
OPTIMISTIC, BUT, ON THE OTHER
HAND, A LOT OF THEM ARE BRINGING
WITH THEM A LOT OF STUDENT DEBT
SO THEY'RE CHALLED IN THAT
REGARD.
>> MARK VITNER, WHAT ABOUT
HOUSING?
IT'S COME UP IN THIS DISCUSSION
BUT IT'S SUCH AN IMPORTANT
SECTOR FOR SO MANY PEOPLE.
>> WELL, IT IS REALLY STUCK IN A
HARD PLACE RIGHT NOW.
I THINK THAT IT FITS IN WITH
YOUR PREVIOUS QUESTION WHEN
YOU'RE ASKING ABOUT THE
UNCERTAINTY PEOPLE ARE FEELING.
OLDER HOUSEHOLDS ARE STAYING IN
PLACE.
MAYBE THEY HAD AN INTERRUPTION
IN THEIR EMPLOYMENT AND THAT'S
HIT THEIR SAVINGS AND THEY'RE
WORRIED ABOUT HOW THEY'RE
POSITIONED FOR RETIREMENT, SO
THEY'RE NOT SELLING THEIR HOME
AND RELOCATING OR DOWNSIZING.
AT THE OTHER END, THEOU
HOUSEHOLDS ARE HAVING A TOUGH
TIME GETTING STARTED.
THEY GRADUATED INTO A VERY WEAK
JOB MARKET, MANY ARE WORKING
PART-TIME JOBS OR WORKING
OUTSIDE THEIR CHOSEN FIELD.
THEYE LOAN
DEBTS AND THEY'RE CHOOSING TO
RENT RATHER THAN BUY.
SO WE'RE REALLY HAVING A TOUGH
TIME GETTING TO MINIMUM IN
HOUSING.
IT'S TRUE IN THE SOUTH AND MOST
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
THERE ARE A FEW SECTORS WHERE
HOUSING IS IS DOING.
WE SALT LAKE CITY IS ONE, ORANGE
COUNTY IN CALIFORNIA, IN
PARTICULAR, SAN DIEGO IS
BEGINNING TO PICK UP, BUT VERY
SPOTTY.
>> Brown: TOM BINNINGS, AN
IMPORTANT SECTOR WHERE YOU ARE
GY SECTOR, IT'SNDUSTRY.
NOT AS IMPORTANT AS SOMETIMES WE
THINK IN COLORADO, BUT IT'S
CONCENTRATED NORTH OF DENVER AND
WELD COUNTY, AND THAT'S DOING
WELL, BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT'S
DRIVING THE ECONOMIC GROWTH IN
THE COLORADO AND THE MOUNTAIN
REGION.
SO THE HOUSING IS ACTUALLY
BOOMING IN DENVER RIGHT NOW, BUT
IT'S MORE HIGHER-DENSITY HOUSING
VERSUS TRADITIONAL AND A LOT
MORE RENTAL HOUSING WAS
MENTIONED, DIFFICULTY IN PEOPLE
QUALIFYING TO BUY, AND
DEVELOPERS HAVING A DIFFICULT
TIME DEVELOPING FOR PURCHASE.
>> Brown: JUST AS WE GET IN
THE LAST COUPLE OF MINUTES HERE,
I JUST WONDER, IS THERE A SECTOR
OR MAYBE EVEN A LOCAL BUSINESS
THAT YOU LIKE TO WATCH AS YOUR
BELLWEATHER TO TELL YOU HOW
THINGS ARE GOING?
>> WELL, THAT'S DEFINITELY A
GOOD QUESTION.
YOU KNOW, ONE THING I HAVE BEEN
WATCHING CLOSELY IS RESTAURANTS
AND JUST HOSPITALITY BECAUSE
THAT'S ABOUT DISCRETIONARY
SPENDING.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE HAD A LOT OF
NEW RESTAURANT OPENINGS AND YOU
DIDN'T SEE THAT A LOT.
YOU SAW MORE RESTAURANTS CLOSING
DURING THE RECESSION AND, SO, I
FEEL LIKE EVEN THOUGH PEOPLE ARE
CAUTIOUS ABOUT EATING OUT HERE
IN OUR SURVEY, I THINK
RESTAURANTS FEEL COMFORTABLE
ABOUT THAT.
I FEEL LIKE A LOT OF NEW
RESTAURANTS ARE OPENING ALL OVER
THE CITY NOW.
>> Brown: MARK VITNER, I KNOW
YOU TAKE A WIDE LOOK AT THE
COUNTRY, BUT IS THERE ONE STORE
OR COMPANY YOU LIKE TO LOOK AT?
>> WELL, THERE'S NOT SO MUCH ONE
STORE OR COMPANY.
I LOOK AT SECTORS AND I WATCH
RETAIL VERY CLOSELY AND LOOK AT
WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH DIFFERENT
RETAILERS, LOOKING AT WHAT'S
HAPPENING WITH THE FURNITURE
STORES, THEIR BUSINESS HAS BEEN
VERY, VERY GOOD.
YOU LOOK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING
WITH THE DISCOUNTERS AND WE'RE
STRUGGLING AND I THINK THAT'S
WHERE THE SPLIT IS OCCURRING AND
CONSUMERS AND LOWER AND MIDDLE
INCOME HOUSEHOLDS ARE REALLY
HAVING A TOUGH TIME BECAUSE
WHILE INFLATION IS RELATIVELY
LOW, FOOD AND ENERGY PRICES ARE
UP A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN THE
OVERALL INFLATION RATE AND WAGES
AREN'T RISING AS RAPIDLY AND ARE
GETTING
>> Brown: THAT'S A LITTLE
DOWNER BUT WE HAVE TO LEAVE IT
THERE.
MARK VITNER, TOM BINNINGS AND
SHIRLEY LEUNG, THANK YOU ALL
VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS.
YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW TO A SERIOUS
PROBLEM INCREASINGLY PLAGUING
THE NN
THE CRIME OF SEXUAL ASSAULT.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS ONE IN FIVE
FEMALE STUDENTS HAS BEEN
AFFECTED, AND NOW A BIPARTISAN
GROUP OF SENATORS IS CALLING FOR
UNIVERSITIES TO ACT.
>> IT IS TIME TO PROTECT THOSE
WHO WERE WRONGED.
THE TIME IS NOW.
>> Ifill: "ANNA" WAS NOT YET
READY TO REVEAL HER LAST NAME
TODAY, BUT SHE WAS PREPARED TO
TELL HER STORY OF SURVIVING
SEXUAL ASSAULT.
>> WHAT HAPPENED TO ME AND TO
TOO MANY OTHER WOMEN AND MEN IS
WRONG.
IT SHOULD NOT MATTER WHAT YOU
DRINK OR WHAT YOU WEAR, THAT
DOES NOT GIVE ANYONE THE RIGHT
TO SEXUALLY ASSAULT YOU.
>> Ifill: THE FORMER HOBART AND
WILLIAM SMITH STUDENT JOINED
OTHER SEXUAL ASSAULT SURVIVORS
AND A BIPARTISAN COLLECTION OF
EIGHT U.S. SENATORS IN
SUPPORTING A PROPOSAL TO IMPROVE
THE WAY COLLEGES DEAL WITH CRIME
ON CAMPUS.
ANNIE CLARK SPOKE ON BEHALF OF
AN ADVOCACY GROUP CALLED END
RAPE ON CAMPUS.
>> THE INSTITUTIONAL BETRAYAL
THAT THESE STUDENTS FACED IS
SOMETIMES WORSE THAN THE ASSAULT
ITSELF.
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH
CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL, WHEN I
REPORTED THAT I WAS SEXUALLY
ASSAULTED, SOMEONE TOLD ME THAT
RAPE WAS LIKE A FOOTBALL GAME
AND THAT I SHOULD LOOK BACK ON
THAT GAME TO FIGURE OUT WHAT I
WOULD DO DIFFERENTLY IN THAT
SITUATION.
>> OUR STUDENTS DESERVE BETTER
THAN THIS.
>> Ifill: NEW YORK DEMOCRAT
KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND SAID THE
NUMBERS SHOW WOMEN IN COLLEGE
ARE MORE LIKELY TO BE VICTIMS OF
SEXUALLY ASSAULT THAN WOMEN WHO
ARE NOT.
>> WITH THIS BILL, WE ARE
FLIPPING THE INCENTIVES.
CURRENTLY ACCURATE REPORTING
MAKES A SCHOOL AN OUTLIER.
BECAUSE NO SCHOOL WANTS TO BE
ALONE IN ADMITTING SUCH A
SERIOUS PROBLEM.
WITH THIS BILL UNDERREPORTING
WILL HAVE STIFF FINES AND REAL
TEETH.
>> Ifill: FLORIDA REPUBLICAN
MARCO RUBIO NOTED THAT SOME
CAMPUS INVESTIGATIONS HAVE
FAVORED STUDENT ATHLETES.
>> I DO THINK IT DOES A
TREMENDOUS JOB OF ADVANCING THE
CAUSE FORWARD.
BY CREATING A UNIFORM SYSTEM
WHERE EVERY SINGLE VICTIM AND
EVERY SINGLE INSTANCE IS TREATED
THE SAME.
WHERE IS NO SPECIAL
PREFERENCE BECAUSE SOMEONE CAN
DUNK A BASKETBALL OR THROW A
BALL 80 YARDS DOWN THE FIELD.
>> Ifill: GILLIBRAND AND CO-
SPONSOR CLAIRE McCASKILL SAID
THEY HOPE TO GET THE BILL PASSED
THIS YEAR.
JOINING ME NOW ARE TWO OF THE
SPONSORS OF THIS BILL: SENATOR
CLAIRE McCASKILL, A DEMOCRAT
FROM MISSOURI AND SENATOR KELLY
AYOTTE, A REPUBLICAN FROM NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE MOST
INTERESTING NUMBERS THAT CAME
OUT OF THE WHITE HOUSE REPORT
AND AGAIN TODAY IS ONE OF FIVE
WOMEN IN COLLEGE CAMPUSES ARE
SUBJECT TO SEXUAL ASSAULT OR
VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT.
WHAT DO COLLEGES DO ABOUT THAT?
>> WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE CLEAR
THAT THERE HAS TO BE A SYSTEM OR
PROCESS IN PLACE THAT WILL ALLOW
CONFIDENTIAL PLACE FOR VICTIMS
TO COME FORWARD AND MAKE SURE
THE INVESTIGATIONS ARE DONE IN A
COMPET W
FRANKLY, THE MORE STARTLING
STATISTIC IS THAT 40% OF THE
COLLEGE CAMPUSES IN THE COUNTRY
HAVE NOT INVESTIGATED A SINGLE
CASE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN FIVE
YEARS, AND WE KNOW THAT THIS IS
A SILENT EPIDEMICS ON YOUR
COLLEGE CAMPUSES, SO WE'VE GOT A
LOT OF WORK TO DO.
THIS BILL COVERS A LOT OF GROUND
AND IT'S A GREAT BIPARTISAN
EFFORT.
>> Ifill: SENATOR AYOTTE, HOW
DO YOU DEFINE SEXUAL ASSAULT ON
CAMPUS?
>> GWEN, THE BOTTOM LINE IS
EVERY ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT NEEDS TO BE FULLY
INVESTIGATED AND THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ENSURE HERE
BECAUSE THERE HAS BEEN GREAT
INCONSISTENCY.
ON SOME CAMPUSES THE ALLEGATIONS
ARE NOT BEING INVESTIGATED AS
THAT'S RIGHT McCASKILL
MENTIONED, IT'S BEEN
INVESTIGATED INCONSISTENCY.
IN SOME CASES ATHLETIC
DEPARTMENTS WERE INVESTIGATING
THEM WHICH IS INAPPROPRIATE.
THERE NEEDS TO BE BEST
PRACTICES, FULL INVESTIGATION
AND VICTIMS NEED TO BE SUPPORTED
WHICH IS NOT HAPPENING.
OUR YOUNG PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY
DESERVE TO HAVE A SAFE
ENVIRONMENT ON CAMPUS AND BOTH
OF US ARE FORMER PROSECUTORS.
WE UNDERSTAND THE VICTIMS WON'T
COME FORWARD IF THEY FEEL LIKE
THEIR ALLEGATIONS AREN'T
INVESTIGATED OR TAKEN SERIOUSLY
AND THEY WON'T RECEIVE THE
SUPPORT THEY DESERVE.
>> Ifill: SENATOR McCASKILL
ARE COLLEGES IGNORING THE
PROBLEM OR COVERING IT UP?
>> I THINK A LITTLE OF BOTH.
I THINK IT'S BETTER TO HOPE IT'S
NOT REALLY HAPPENING AND WHAT
THIS BILL WILL DO IS FORCE THEM
TO BE MORE TRANSPARENT, TO DO A
CLIMATE SURVEY SO THAT WE HAVE
AN APPLES TO APPLES COMPARISON
ON CAMPUSES.
HOW DO KIDS FEEL ON CAMPUSES?
ARE THEY SAFE?
IS THERE A LOT GOING ON NOT
REPORTED?
ULTIMATELY, BUILDING BRIDGES
BETWEEN CAMPUSES AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT SO THAT WHEN A
VICTIM IS CONFIDENT AND CAN COME
FORWARD, WE GET A GOOD
PROSECUTION OUT OF IT BECAUSE
VERY FEW PEOPLE RAPE SOMEONE
ONCE.
THESE ARE REPEAT OFFENDERS, EVEN
ON THESE COLLEGE CAMPUSES.
>> Ifill: SOME EDUCATORS SAID
YOU'RE POINTING THE FINGER IN
WRONG DIRECTION AND THEY'RE
EDUCATING AND DON'T NEED TO BE
THE COPS.
>> WE'RE WORKING WITH HIGHER
EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS TO HAVE
BEST PRACTICES IN PLACE ON THEIR
CAMPUSES AND WE DON'T WANT THEM
TO FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE TO BE LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
THAT'S THE POINT OF THIS BILL IS
TO ENSURE THERE IS AN
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN EACH
COLLEGE AND THEIR LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES SO THAT
THEY KNOW THAT THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATE THESE
CRIMES, BUT THE INSTITUTION HAS
A RESPONSIBILITY TO HAVE A SAFE
CLIMATE ON CAMPUS AND VICTIMS,
WHEN THEY COME FORWARD, SHOULD
KNOW THEY WILL BE SUPPORTED BY
THE INSTITUTION, THAT VICTIMS
WILL HAVE A CONFIDENTIAL ADVISOR
TO HELP THEM THROUGH THE
PROCESS.
SO THIS IS PART OF THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THESE
INSTITUTIONS TO ENSURE IT'S SAFE
ON CAMPUS FOR THE YOUNG PEOPLE
WHO ATTEND THESE COLLEGES AND
LOOKING FOR A BETTER LIFE AND
MORE OPPORTUNITY.
>> Ifill: SENATOR McCASKILL,
THERE ARE A LOT OF W
NEVER GET TO COLLEGE.
WHAT ABOUT AT THEM?
THIS SEEMS TO BE PAYING SPECIAL
ATTENTION TO WOMEN WHO HAVE A
LOT OF ADVANTAGES ALREADY.
WHAT ABOUT WOMEN WHO DON'T?
>> BELIEVE IT OR NOT, GWEN, THE
STATISTICS SHOW INCIDENT OF RATE
IS HIGHER AMONG THIS POPULATION
THAN THE NON-COLLEGE POPULATION.
THIS IS ABOUT THE REQUIREMENTS
OF A SAFE CAMPUS AND ABOUT THE
CONDUCT OF STUDENTS ON CAMPUS.
BUT, OBVIOUSLY, BOTH KELLY AND I
HAVE WORKED FOR A LOT OF OUR
LIVES IN THIS AREA OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT AND WE HAVE BEEN VERY
ACTIVE IN THE VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN ACT AND OTHER PIECES OF
LEGISLATION THAT PROVIDE SUPPORT
AND COUNSELING AND THOSE SAME
SERVICES WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES TO EVERY
WOMAN WHO FINDS HERSELF IN ONE
OF THESE SITUATIONS.
>> Ifill: WHAT WILL ASSESSING
PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE
MAKE IN HELPING COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES PAY BETTER
ATTENTION TO THE PROBLEM?
>> THE DIFFERENCE I THINK IT
WILL MAKE IS COLLEGES RECEIVE A
SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF FEDERAL
SUPPORT IN MANY WAYS AND THIS
WILL JUST ENSURE MORE
ACCOUNTABILITY THAT THERE IS
UNIFORMITY ON CAMPUS AS TO HOW
THIS IS HANDLED AND THEY'RE
REACHING OUT TO THE STUDENT BODY
TO HELP VICTIMS OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT AND PREVENTION EFFORTS.
IN HIGHER ED, WE SEE FEDERAL
DOLLARS UNDER THE CLERY ACT AND
TITLE 9 WHICH IS PUTTING MORE
TEETH INTO EFFORTS ALREADY IN
PLACE TO ENSURE WE CAN WORK WITH
INSTITUTION FORCE THEM TO DO THE
RIGHT THING AND TO HAVE T A SAFE
CLIMATE ON CAMPUS.
>> Ifill: SENATOR McCASKILL
DO WE TRUNK RISK OF SHIFTING
RESPONSIBILITY FROM LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT TO CAMPUS POLICE WHO
MAY NOT BE AS SKILLED OR
PREPARED TO DEAL WITH THIS?
>> NO, IN FACT, WE'RE HOPING FOR
THE OPPOSITE.
WHAT WE'RE HOPING IS THAT WITH
THIS CONFIDENTIAL ADVISOR WHERE
A VICTIM CAN GO AND GET GOOD
INFORMATION AND THE RIGHT KIND
OF FORENSIC INTERVIEW, THEN SHE
WILL HAVE THE OFFCAN DENSE AND
THE RIGHT INFORMATION TO ALLOW
HER TO GO TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AND
HAVE LAW ENFORCEMENT DO WHAT
THEY SHOULD BE DOING AND THAT IS
INVESTIGATING THIS CRIME.
IN THAT REGARD, WE HAVE TO MAKE
EVERYONE IS TRAINED AND MAKE
SURE THAT NOT JUST LAW
ENFORCEMENT IS TRAINED ON THESE
CRIMES BUT CAMPUS LAW
ENFORCEMENT IS TRAINED AND THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE ADJUDICATING
THESE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
WHERE A STUDENT COULD BE
PUNISHED BY SUSPENSION OR
EXPULSION FROM THE SCHOOL THAT
THEY UNDERSTAND THIS CRIME AND,
RIGHT NOW, IT IS A HODGEPODGE OF
MISFITS THAT ARE TRYING TO DO
THIS.
AS KELLY MENTIONED, WE EVEN HAVE
ATHLETIC DEPARTMENTS DOING IT
FOR THEIR ATHLETES WHICH IS A
TERRIBLE CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
IT'S HARD ENOUGH FOR A VICTIM TO
COME FORWARD, IF SHE SENSES
THERE MIGHT BE A LEVEL PLAYING
FIELD.
THEY'LL NEVER COME FORWARD IF
THEY SENSE AN UNLEVEL PLAYING
FIELD.
>> Ifill: WE'VE HAD THE
FORTUNE OF TALKING ABOUT
BIPARTISANSHIP THIS WEEK ON
VETERANS AFFAIRS AND WE WANT TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY THAT YOU MAY GET
THIS PASSED THIS YEAR.
SENATOR AYOTTE.
>> YOU SAW A GREAT GROUP OF
BIPARTISAN WORK TODAY.
WE'RE GOING TO FIND A LOT OF
BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR THIS
LEGISLATION BECAUSE EVERY STATE
IN THIS NATION HAS A COLLEGE OR
A HIGHER ED INSTITUTION AND WE
WANT TO ENSURE -- I KNOW ALL MY
COLLEAGUES DO -- THAT THOSE
CAMPUSES ARE SAFE FOR OUR YOUNG
MEN AND WOMEN TO GO TO.
>> Ifill: SENATOR McCASKILL.
F WE CAN'T SET ASIDE
PARTISAN RELATIONSHIPS ON THIS
ISSUE WE ARE WITHOUT HOPE.
PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
AISLE WANT TO GET THIS RIGHT AND
MAKE IT SUPPORTIVE FOR VICTIMS
AND UNIVERSITIES AND I THINK
WE'LL GET THIS DONE.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: A NEW REPORT
DOCUMENTS HOW AL QUAIDA IS
BRINGING IN MONEY TO FINANCE ITS
OPERATIONS.
INVESTIGATION BY THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" REVEALS EUROPEAN AND GULF
STATES GOVERNMENT HAVE ROUTINELY
PAID MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
RANSOM TO WIN THE RELEASE OF
THEIR CITIZENS KIDNAPPED BY
AL QUAIDA IN.
ALL SINCE $2,008,125 MILLION HAS
BEEN PAID OUT BY FRANCE,
SWITZERLAND, SPAIN, AUSTRIA,
QATAR ANDOMAN.
THREE DIFFERENT AL QUAIDA
COORDINATE EFFORTS AND ABIDE BY
A COMMON KIDNAPPING PROTOCOL.
WE HAVE RUKMINI CALLIMACHI WHO
WROTE THE STORY.
TELL US ABOUT HOW THE GROUPS
OPERATED.
IT SEEMS MORE COORDINATED THAN I
THINK MOST PEOPLE WOULD EXPECT.
>> YES, EXACTLY.
IT'S MUCH MORE COORDINATED THAN
I THINK WE REALIZED.
THERE'S A LETTER THAT I WAS ABLE
TO RECOVER IN MALI LAST YEAR
WHEN I WAS ON ASSIGNMENT FROM
THE A.P. AND IT WAS A LETTER
FROM A LEADING CELL IN NORTH
AFRICA UNDER AL QUAIDA'S
TUTELAGE TO A COMMANDER WHO HAD
BOTCHED THE RANSOM NEGOTIATIONS
FOR A HOSTAGE HE HAD AND, IN THE
LETTER, ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
THEY SAY TO HIM IS THAT HE HAD
GOTTEN A MUCH LOWER RANSOM
FIGURE BECAUSE HE HAD DECIDED TO
NEGOTIATE THE RANSOM HIMFUL IS
RATHER THAN LETTING THE LEADERS
IN PAKISTAN -- A REFERENCE TO
AL QUAIDA CENTRAL -- CARRY OUT
THE NEGOTIATIONS.
SO WHAT IS CLEAR IS THESE
KIDNAPPINGS ARE NOT JUST BY
INDIVIDUAL UNITS IN FOREIGN
PLACES IN THE WORLD.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY BEING
COORDINATED BY AL QUAIDA CORE.
>> Woodruff: HAS THIS BECOME
THE PRINCE THE SOURCE OF FUNDING
FOR AL QUAIDA?
I KNOW WE TALKED TO OTHER TERROR
EX SPIRITS WHO SAID IT IS A
SIGNIFICANT SOURCE OF FUNDING ON
THE AFRICAN CONTINENT, MAYBE
LESS SO FOR OTHER BRANCHES.
>> ONE OF THE DOCUMENTS WE FOUND
IN MALLEY LAST YEAR WAS A LETTER
FROM THE NUMBER TWO OF AL QUAIDA
WHO IS THE HEAD OF AL QUAIDA
AFFILIATE IN YEMEN AND IN THAT
LETTER HE ADVISES OTHER
JIHADISTS TO BEGIN KIDNAPPING
AND SAYS THE SPURS OF KIDNAPPING
REPRESENT 50% OF HIS OPERATING
REVENUE.
SO IN THEIR OWN WORDS THEY'RE
SAYING RANSOMS HAVE BECOME VERY
IMPORTANT.
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
HAS SAID AS MUCH THAT RANSOMS
HAVE NOW BECOME THE MAIN SOURCE
OF FINANCING FOR THE TERROR
NETWORK.
>> Woodruff: HOW ARE THE
HOSTAGES TREATED?
BECAUSE ON THE ONE HAND, THEY
ARE THREATENED WITH THEIR LIVES
EVERY MOMENT THEY'RE HELD
CAPTIVE.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THE CAPTORS
WANT TO KEEP THEM HEALTHY IN
ORDER TO GET THE RANSOM.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY IT.
A DECADE AGO WHEN WESTERNERS
WERE TAKEN BY AL QUAIDA, IT WAS
SPECIFICALLY TO KILL THEM IN THE
MOST GRUESOME POSSIBLE WAY TO
MAKE A POLITICAL STATEMENT.
NOW, WHEN HOSTAGES ARE TAKEN,
THE GOAL IS TO KEEP THEM ALIVE
AND TO TRADE THEM FOR MONEY OR
PRISONER EXCHANGE.
SO I WAS ABLE TO SPEAK TO
NUMEROUS HOSTAGES WHO WERE HELD
BOTH IN AFRICA AND YEMEN AND
SEVERAL PEOPLE TOLD ME THAT
THERE WERE LOGISTICS IN PLACE TO
DEAL WITH WHATEVER THEIR ILLNESS
WAS.
ONE WOMAN HAD BREAST CANCER,
THEY WERE ABLE TO BRING IN
BREAST CANCER ADMINISTRATION.
ONE PERSON HAD A KIDNEY AILMENT.
THEY WERE ABLE TO TRUCK IN
SPECIALIZED KIDNEY MEDICINE.
IN GENERAL, THIS IS A BUSINESS
FOR THEM.
THEY SEE THE HOSTAGES AS A
COMMODITY AND HAVING THEM DIE ON
YOU IS NOT USEFUL.
>> Woodruff: RUKMINI
CALLIMACHI, TALK ABOUT HOW THE
DIFFERENT GOVERNMENTS IN EUROPE
DEAL WITH THIS BECAUSE YOU
POINTED OUT UNITED STATES AND
GREAT BRITAIN DON'T PAY,
TYPICALLY, A RANSOM FOR HOSTAGES
BUT THE OTHER GOVERNMENTS DO.
HOW DO THEY ARRIVE AT THAT
PHILOSOPHY?
WE HAVE TO SAY THEY PUBLICLY
DENY THEY'RE DOING THIS.
>> EXACTLY.
SO ALL OF THE GOVERNMENTS DENY
THAT THEY PAY RANSOMS.
I WAS ABLE TO THROUGH A LOT OF
FOOTWORK TO FINALLY TRACK DOWN
SEVERAL OF THE MAIN NEGOTIATORS
BOTH ON THE EUROPEAN SIDE AND ON
THE AFRICAN AND THE YEMEN SIDE
WHO ARE THE ONES WHO MADE THE
BRIDGE WITH THE AL QUAIDA
GROUPS.
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS EUROPEAN
GOVERNMENTS ARE OFTEN PAYING
THESE RANSOMS BUT THEY'RE HIDING
THEM BY CALLING IT AN AID
PAYMENT TO THE COUNTRY WHERE THE
HOSTAGES ARE BEING KEPT.
FOR INSTANCE, ONE OF THE VERY
FIRST RANSOMS WAS IN 2003, PAID
BY GERMANY, AND I WAS ABLE TO
SPEAK TO SIX OFFICIALS WHO
CONFIRMED THAT GERMANY SENT A
HIGH-LEVEL EMISSARY WITH THREE
SUITCASES OF CASH, ARRIVED IN
THE CAPITAL OF MALI, HANDED THEM
OVER TO THE PRESIDENT OF MALI,
AND IN THE BUDGET FOR THAT YEAR
THEY WROTE IT OFF AS
HUMANITARIAN AID TO MALI.
>> Woodruff: SO AL QUAIDA HAS
SEEN THIS AS A SYSTEMATIC WAY, A
SUCCESSFUL THING FOR THEM TO DO,
BECAUSE ONE ASSUMES THERE ARE
OPERATIONS THAT DON'T WORK OUT
FOR THEM.
>> YES.
THERE HAVE FOR SURE BEEN RESCUE
ATTEMPTS BY FRANCE, ALSO BY THE
UNITED STATES WHEN THEIR PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN TAKEN, SO THERE IS
SOME RISK TO IT.
BUT WHAT STRUCK ME WHEN I WAS
SPEAKING TO THESE FORMER
HOSTAGES IS, IN GENERAL, JUST
HOW EASY IT IS TO TAKE
FOREIGNERS LIKE US.
WHEN YOU POINT A GUN AT AN
UNARMED CIVILIAN, WHAT ARE THEY
GOING TO DO?
VERY FEW PEOPLE RUN.
THE MAJORITY JUST PUT UP THEIR
HANDS AND GO WITH THEIR CAPTORS
AND ONCE THEY'RE BEING HELD IN
NORTH AFRICA OR YEMEN, THEY'RE
IN THE DESERT, AND HUNDREDS IF
NOT THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY FROM
ANYWHERE.
AND, SO, THE HOSTAGES SAY THAT,
EVEN THOUGH THEY OBSESSIVELY
THINK ABOUT RUNNING AWAY, EVEN
THOUGH THEY'RE NOT CHAINED UP,
THEY FIND THEMSELVES IN AN
OPEN-AIR PRISON AND, SO, THEY'RE
ABLE TO HOLD THEM FOR ANOTHER
TIME.
>> Woodruff: SO FINALLY A
QUESTION ABOUT OUR GOVERNMENTS
COMING UP WITH STRATEGIES TO
DEAL WITH THIS.
ARE THEY TELLING TOURISTS?
BECAUSE SO OFTEN I WAS STRUCK BY
HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE TAKEN
HOSTAGE WERE SIMPLY TOURISTS IN
THE WRONG PLACE AT THE WRONG
TIME.
A GOVERNMENT SAYING TO PEOPLE
DON'T GO TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES OR
PARTS OF COUNTRIES.
HOW ARE GOVERNMENTS REACTING?
>> YES, FOR SURE, AND THE ARC OF
THIS IS IN THE EARLY YEARS
STARTING IN 2003 --
[ AUDIO DIFFICULTY ]
>> Woodruff: MY APOLOGY.
APPARENTLY, WE HAVE LOST THE
SIGNAL FROM NEW YORK CITY WITH
RUKMINI CALLIMACHI OF THE "NEW
YORK TIMES."
WE APOLOGIZE.
SOMETIMES THAT HAPPENS.
WE'LL BE BACK.
>> Ifill: SCIENTISTS ARE LOOKING
INTO A SURPRISING NEW POLLUTANT
IN THE COUNTRY'S WATERWAYS: THE
EXISTENCE OF TINY PLASTIC
MICROBEADS.
THE STATE OF ILLINOIS HAS BECOME
THE FIRST STATE TO BAN THESE
MICROBEADS.
BRANDIS FRIEDMAN HAS THAT STORY
FROM W.T.T.W CHICAGO.
>> WHAT IF YOU COULD SHRINK YOUR
PORES, JUST BY WASHING YOUR
FACE?
>> Reporter: MICROBEADS HAVE
BEEN ALL THE RAGE IN HAND
SANITIZERS, BODY WASH AND FACIAL
SCRUB, EVEN TOOTHPASTE.
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO HELP REMOVE
DEAD CELLS OR TIGHTEN PORES AS
THE PRODUCT IN THIS COMMERCIAL
CLAIMS.
BUT THEY WORRY OLGA LYANDRES.
>> WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT HOW MANY
OF THESE ARE BEING USED DAILY
AND WASHED DOWN THE DRAIN, IT'S
QUITE STAGGERING.
>> Reporter: LYANDRES IS THE
RESEARCH MANAGER FOR THE
ALLIANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
IMPACTS THE ECOSYSTEM THE
WILDLIFE BY ENTANGLING FISH AND
BIRDS INGEST THESE PARTICLES,
AND IT IMPACTS THEIR HEALTH.
BUT ALSO IT'S A SORT OF A
CULTURAL ISSUE, BECAUSE PEOPLE
WHO GREW UP AROUND GREAT LAKES,
GO TO THE BEACH DON'T WANT TO GO
TO BEACH THAT'S LITTERED AND
DIRTY WITH PLASTIC ITEMS.
>> Reporter: SCIENTISTS ARE ALSO
SEEING EVIDENCE THAT THE
MICROBEADS ARE REACHING THE
WATER.
AT LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO,
PROFESSOR TIMOTHY HOELLEIN AND
HIS STUDENT RESEARCHERS ARE
LOOKING FOR THE PLASTIC BEADS
IN SAMPLES OF WATER TAKEN FROM
RIVERS IN AND AROUND CHICAGO, AS
WELL AS LAKE MICHIGAN.
LAST YEAR, SHERRI MASON AT THE
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK IN
FREDONIA FOUND ANYWHERE FROM
1,500 TO 1.1 MILLION MICROBEADS
PER SQUARE MILE IN THE GREAT
LAKES-- THE WORLD'S LARGEST
SOURCE OF FRESHWATER.
>> WHAT WE'RE INTERESTED IN
DOING IS DETERMINING
CONCENTRATION, DETERMINING THE
SOURCE OF MICROPLASTIC AND ALSO
DIFFERENT TYPES OF THESE SMALL
PLASTIC PIECES THAT WE FIND IN
THE RIVER.orter: SO FAR, HOELLEN
SAYS HIS RESEARCH SHOWS THAT THE
SYNTHETIC MICROBEADS ARE COMING
FROM TREATED WASTEWATER THAT
FLOWS INTO SANITARY CANALS AND
RIVERS, WHICH FEED INTO LARGER
BODIES OF WATER.
>> OUR INITIAL FINDINGS FROM THE
NORTH SHORE CHANNEL SHOWED VERY
HIGH CONCENTRATIONS OF
MICROPLASTIC DOWNSTREAM OF OUR
WASTEWATER EFFLUENT SOURCE, AND
IN FACT OUR CONCENTRATIONS WERE
HIGHER THAN WHAT HAD BEEN FOUND
IN OCEAN.
NOT ONLY DID WE FIND IT, BUT WE
FOUND A LOT OF MATERIAL.
>> Reporter: IN JUNE, GOVERNOR
PAT QUINN SIGNED INTO LAW
LEGISLATION MAKING ILLINOIS THE
FIRST STATE IN THE UNION TO BAN
THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS
CONTAINING SYNTHETIC PLASTIC
MICROBEADS.
THE NEW LAW REQUIRES THAT THE
BEADS BE REMOVED FROM
MANUFACTURING BY THE END OF 2018
AND THE PRODUCTS CAN NO LONGER
BE SOLD STARTING AT THE END OF
2019.
AND SINCE MAJOR MANUFACTURERS
MAKE PRODUCTS FOR THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY, OTHER STATES WILL BEGIN
TO NOTICE THE CHANGE ON THEIR
STORE SHELVES AS WELL, WHETHER
OR NOT THEY'VE PASSED THEIR OWN
BAN.
LYANDRES, WHOSE ORGANIZATION WAS
PUSHING FOR THE BAN IN ILLINOIS,
WANTED THE PRODUCTS GONE SOONER.
>> WE WOULD'VE LIKED TO HAVE
SEEN A MORE COMPRESSED TIMELINE
FOR PHASE OUT.
THE SOONER YOU CAN GET THESE
COMPANIES TO MAKE PRODUCTS
AVAILABLE WITH ALTERNATIVES, THE
BETTER AND LESS OF IT ENDS UP IN
WATERWAYS.
>> Reporter: TWO ORGANIZATIONS
REPRESENTING THE PERSONAL CARE
PRODUCT INDUSTRY WORKED WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVOCATES AND
LAWMAKERS TO CRAFT THE ILLINOIS
BILL.
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE
PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS COUNCIL
DECLINED AN ON-CAMERA INTERVIEW,
BUT IN A STATEMENT SAID QUOTE,
IT IS TRUE THAT THE LONG TERM
IMPACT OF THE MICROBEADS ON THE
ENVIRONMENT IS NOT KNOWN.
AND SCIENTISTS ARE LOOKING INTO
HOW THEY MIGHT CARRY OTHER
ORGANISMS AND CHEMICALS.
>> ONE OF THE CONCERNS IS THAT
MICROBES ON THAT PLASTIC COULD
BE PATHOGENIC, DISEASE-CAUSING
AND THEY MAY BE DISPERSED
FURTHER IN ENVIRONMENT ON A
PLASTIC SURFACE THAN ON A
NATURAL SURFACE.
>> Reporter: AND BECAUSE THE
BEADS FLOAT ON THE WATER'S
SURFACE, FISH MISTAKE THEM FOR
FOOD.
THE PLASTIC ALONE IS BAD FOR
FISH HEALTH, BUT SO ARE THE
MICROBES THAT THE BEADS CAN
CARRY.
>> ONCE THE PLASTIC IS INSIDE
THEIR GUTS, IT CAN COME OFF, MAY
REPRESENT A DELIVERY MECHANISM
FOR THESE HARMFUL CHEMICALS THAT
DIDN'T EXIST PREVIOUSLY.
>> Reporter: AMONG OTHER
UNANSWERED QUESTIONS: DO HUMANS
END UP UNKNOWINGLY EATING THE
PLASTIC AFTER IT'S BEEN CONSUMED
BY FISH?
>> THERE'S NO RESEARCH ON LONG-
TERM IMPACT, BECAUSE WE'VE JUST
STARTED TO LOOK AT THE PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: MICROBEADS END UP
IN THE WATERWAYS BECAUSE WATER
TREATMENT PLANTS SIMPLY CAN'T
CATCH THEM-- THEY'RE TOO SMALL.
>> SO SMALL THAT EVEN IF THERE'S
A SAND FILTER IN A PLANT, IT
DOESN'T STOP THEM FROM PASSING
THROUGH THE PLANT AND INTO THE
WATER ENVIRONMENT.
>> THIS IS THE THIRD STEP IN THE
WATER TREATMENT PROCESS SO WATER
IS AERATED SO, LIGHTER MATERIAL
RISES TO THE TOP AND HEAVIER
WASTE SINKS TO THE BOTTOM.
BUT SOMEWHERE IN THE PROCESS ARE
THE MICROBEADS, WHICH MAKE IT
THROUGH THE ENTIRE MULTI-STEP
PROCESS AND OUT TO THE SANITARY
AND SHIP CANAL ALONG WITLL
TREATED WATER.
NOTHING YOU ALL CAN DO ABOUT
THAT?
NOT WITHOUT A SIGNIFICANT
INVESTMENT?
>> Reporter: DAVID SAINT PIERRE
IS THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION
DISTRICT OF GREATER CHICAGO.
HE ARGUES WE SHOULD FOCUS ON
PREVENTION.
>> IF WE WERE TO ADAPT OUR
PLANTS TO DEAL WITH MICROBEADS
IT WOULD BE VERY EXPENSIVE.
IF WE DEAL WITH IT ON FRONT END,
TAKE CARE OF IT BEFORE IT'S A
PROBLEM, BY ELIMINATING IT AS A
POLLUTANT SOURCE, VERY
INEXPENSIVE WAY TO DEAL WITH THE
PROBLEM.
>> FINDING A NEW PROBLEM IN OUR
FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS IS
ALARMING AND CONCERNING AND WE
SHOULD ALL BE WORRIED, BUT I
THINK WHAT A BAN ON MICROBEADS
HAS SHOWN IS THAT ONCE WE BECOME
AWARE OF THE PROBLEM AND SCALE
AND CONTEXT AND SOURCES WE CAN
REALLY START TO TAKE SOME REAL
ACTION TOWARDS SOLUTIONS.
>> Reporter: LEGISLATURES IN NEW
YORK, CALIFORNIA AND OHIO ARE
CONSIDERING BANS SIMILAR TO
ILLINOIS.
INSTEAD OF PLASTICS, SOME
MANUFACTURERS ARE ALREADY
PLANNING TO USE NATURAL
INGREDIENTS, LIKE APRICOT SEEDS,
SAND OR OATMEAL TO ACHIEVE THE
SAME GOALS.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, AN
INCREASINGLY SUCCESSFUL COMEDIAN
WHO TALKS ABOUT RACE AND
ETHNICITY AS THE COUNTRY'S
DEMOGRAPHIC PICTURE CONTINUES TO
CHANGE SUBSTANTIALLY.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
>> Sreenivasan: COMEDIAN HARI
KONDABOLU HAS MADE A NAME FOR
HIMSELF FOR THE BRAND OF HUMOR
THAT DOESN'T PULL PUNCHES WHEN
IT COMES TO RACE.
>> WHEN YOU ASK YOUR WHITE
FRIENDS WHAT THEIR CULTURAL
HERITAGE IS THEY NEVER SAY JUST
WHITE, THEY GIVE YOU A MATH
EQUATION.
A THIRD GERMAN, A FOURTH IRISH,
1/15 WELSH AND 25 PRS FOR
COLLEGE APPLICATION.
SEE, ALL THESE YEARS, THOUGHT
YOU WERE JUST WHITE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: AND HE HASN'T
BEEN AFRAID TO BRING HIS JOKES
TO NATIONAL AUDIENCES ON DAVID
LETTERMAN, CONAN.
HIS ALBUM, IS TALKING ABOUT WHEN
WHITES WILL BECOME A MINORITY.
I CAUGHT UP WITH HIM AND LEARNED
WHY COLONIALISM CAN BE A RIPE
SUBJECT FOR HUMOR AND WHY COMICS
CAN SAY THINGS THE REST OF US
CAN'T.
HARRHARI INTERVIEWING HARI.
>> FASCINATING.
>> Sreenivasan: YOUR COMEDY
HAS A LOT OF HEADINESS TO IT.
YOU TRY TO MAKE FUN OF
COLONIALISM AND SOME OF THE
REPERCUSSIONS WE'RE LIVING WITH
TODAY.
>> YEAH.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW IS
COLONIALISM FUNNY AND HOW IS IT
FUNNY IN THE CONTEXT OF HOW WE
LIVE TODAY.
>> I THINK ABOUT IT IN TERMS OF
HOW PEOPLE MADE FUN OF MY
PARENTS FOR THEIR ACCENT.
I THOUGHT, YOU REALIZE IT'S
ABSURD THEY'RE SPEAKING ENGLISH.
THEY'RE NOT SPEAKING ENGLISH.
THEY HAVE TO SPEAK IT BECAUSE
THEY GREW UP IN A COLONIZED
COUNTRY AND ALSO THEY'RE HERE
FOR GREATER ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITIES SO THAT'S FUNNY
FOR ME.
SO BEFORE WE BEGIN I'D LIKE YOU
TO KNOW THE THEME OF MY SET
TONIGHT WILL BE COLONIALISM.
WHICH IS WHY I AM SPEAKING ONLY
IN ENGLISH.
NO, THIS IS ABSURD.
THIS IS ALL ABSURD.
>> Sreenivasan: AND YOUR
COMEDY HAS EVOLVED OVER THE
YEARS.
>> YEAH.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN YOU FIRST
STARTED OUT, YOU WERE ABLE TO
MAKE FUN OF INDIAN ACCENTS YOU
WERE AROUND WHEN YOU GREW UP.
HOW DID THAT CHANGE?
>> AGE COMEDIAN WANTS TO MAKE
THE AUDIENCE LAUGH, THAT'S
STANDARD FOR ANY COMIC, BUT WHEN
YOU'RE STARTING, THAT'S ALL
YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT.
THERE ISN'T THE POSSIBILITY OF
WHAT DO I WANT TO SAY AND DO I
KNOW WHAT I WANT TO SAY AND
WHAT'S MY POINT OF VIEW?
THAT ALL COMES LATER, SO
INITIALLY THAT'S ALL I WANT TO
DO.
IF I DID A FUNNY VOICE, WE SAW
IT ON THE SIMPSONS --
>> Sreenivasan: HE WAS THE
MOST FAMOUS WHEN WE WERE GROWING
UP.
>> AND GANDHI, THOSE WERE THE
TWO OPTIONS WE HAD.
>> Sreenivasan: RIGHT.
AND I KNEW THERE WAS
PRECEDENT FOR IT SO I DID
IMPRESSIONS OF MY FATHER.
>> Sreenivasan: OVER TIME, DID
YOU GET TO REALIZE THAT'S THE
LOW BAR IS THIS.
>> WELL, IT FELT LOW EVEN THEN
WHEN I WAS 17, 18, I KNEW THIS
WAS EASY, BUT WHEN YOU'RE TRYING
TO MAKE PEOPLE LAUGH, THAT'S
WHAT YOU DID.
THINKING ABOUT MY PARENTS AND
THINKING ABOUT HOW HARD IT WAS
FOR THEM TO HAVE ACCENTS AND
COMMUNICATE IN THIS COUNTRY AND
THE FACT THAT, OKAY, I'M MAKING
A JOKE WITH AN ACCENT, PEOPLE
ARE LAUGHING AT THE ACCENT, I
THINK, NOT THE JOKE -- OR AT THE
ACCENT.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THEY
LAUGHING AT ME OR WITH ME?
>> WHEN MY PARENTS TALK TO
PEOPLE DO PEOPLE LAUGH BEHIND
THEIR BACKS AND DO IMPRESSIONS
OF THEM?
I STARTED TO THINK ABOUT IT.
POST-9/11, EVERYTH MORE
COMPLICATED.
IT WAS THAT INTERESTING THING OF
WHAT AM I TALKING ABOUT, REALLY?
THIS IS THE MOST BASE LEVEL
EXPERIENCE AND I'M TALKING ABOUT
THAT VERSUS WHAT'S REALLY
HAPPENING IN AMERICA.
AT THAT POINT, A 19, 20, 21 YEAR
OLD, I WAS MAKING OTHER COLLEGE
STUDENTS LAUGH ON CAMPUS BUT I
WASN'T DOING ANY OF SUBSTANCE
AND I THOUGHT THERE MUST BE A
WAY TO SAY SOMETHING FUNNY BUT
THAT I MEANT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT HAPPENS
IN 2042?
>> ACCORDINACCORDING TO THE REP,
WHITE PEOPLE WILL BE A MINORITY
IN AMERICA.
>> Sreenivasan: WHY DOES THAT
MATTER?
>> THE CENSUS IS COUNTING IT SO
CLEARLY PEOPLE ARE FREAKED OUT
ABOUT IT AND THERE ARE GROUPS OF
PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY AFRAID OF
BEING THE MINORITY AND WHAT THAT
WOULD MEAN.
FIRST OF ALL, 49%, WHICH IS A
NUMBER THAT DOESN'T MAKE YOU THE
MINORITY WHICH DOESN'T MEAN THE
OTHER 51% IS EXACTLY THE SAME
AND ALSO ALL WHITE PEOPLE ARE
THE SAME.
IT'S MADE UP OF THINGS, IT'S A
CONSTRUCT.
THE IRISH, ITALIANS, POLISH, THE
JEWS WEREN'JEWS WEREN'T ALL THA.
WE'RE GIVING OURSELVES NUMBERS.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE ALBUM
COVER IS A PICTURE WORTH A
THOUSAND WORDS FOR ANY SOUTH
ASIAN, BUT WHY THE PICTURE?
>> THE PICTURE OF ME ON THE BACK
OF A BICYCLE BEING DRIVEN BY AN
OLD WHITE MAN WEARING A SUIT.
IT'S ME POINTING INTO THE
DISTANCE LIKE SOME KIND OF
COLONIAL HERO, YOU KNOW, WEARING
A CROWN.
I KNOW IT BOTHERS SOME PEOPLE
AND OTHER PEOPLE LOVE IT, AND I
WANT IT ETCHED ON MY GRAVE STONE
BECAUSE I'M SURE IT'S WHAT'S
GOING TO GET ME KILLED.
>> Sreenivasan: HAVE YOU
GOTTEN PUSHBACK FOR THE PICTURE.
>> YES, BUT MOSTLY FOR THE
CONTENT OF THE ALBUM.
I DON'T THINK THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
ANGRY HAVE EVEN HEARD THE
RE.'S FOLKS WHO DON'T
LIKE THE IDEA OF ME TALKING
ABOUT RACE IN THIS WAY AND
ACCUSE ME OF BEINGO SEASED WITH
RACE EVEN THOUGH I'M NOT THE ONE
TALKING ABOUT 2042, REALLY, I'M
COMMENTING OBSERV ON PEOPLE BEIG
OBSESSED WITH THE DEMOGRAPHICS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS IT
ABOUT COMEDY THAT ALLOWS US TO
HAVE DIFFERENT CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT RACE.
YOU'VE SEEN AFRICAN-AMERICANS
FOR DECADES GO THROUGH AND SAY
THINGS ON STAGE THEY'D NEVER SAY
AT A DINNER PARTY -- OR MAYBE
THEY WOULD IF THEY WERE THE
COMEDIAN.
>> THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO BE
KIND OF UNCOMFORTABLE OR
INAPPROPRIATE, BUT THEN THEY'RE
ON STAGE AND IT'S APPROPRIATE.
IF YOU CAN MAKE PEOPLE LAUGH,
YOU CAN GET AWAY WITH A LOT.
AND SOMETIMES THAT'S TERRIBLE
BUT SOMETIMES I ALSO THINK, YOU
KNOW, I REMEMBER BEING A KID, I
DIDN'T READ A LOT OF ACADEMIC
JOURNALS OR FOLLOW THE NEWS AS
MUCH AS I PROBABLY SHOULD HAVE,
BUT THE PEOPLE THAT CONVEYED THE
NEWS TO ME AND TAUGHT ME ABOUT
IT WERE COMEDIANS BECAUSE THEY
TRAVELED AND SAW THE WORLD AND
MET MANY DIFFERENT TYPES OF
PEOPLE AND THEY WERE OUTSIDE OF
WHATEVER BUBBLE OPINIONS IN AS A
YOUNG PERSON, SO COMEDIANS CAN
CONVEY MESSAGES TO THE MASSES.
LIKE NOT EVERYONE WILL WATCH
"NewsHour" BUT THEY WILL WATCH
COMICS AND SEE THEM PERFORM AND
THAT'S INCREDIBLE.
AND I WANT PEOPLE LAUGH
BUT I DO SEE SOME
RESPONSIBILITY.
I MIGHT BE SOMEBODY EXPOSING YOU
TO A NEW POINT OF VIEW AND I
MIGHT BE THE ONLY PERSON DOING
THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS YOUR
FIRST TIME INTERVIEWED BY HARI.
HOW DID IT GO?
>> VERY COMFORTABLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> SO NICE TO DO THIS WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY: THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PASSED
A BILL TONIGHT TO SUE PRESIDENT
OBAMA FOR OVERSTEPPING HIS
EXECUTIVE POWERS IN THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
THE VOTE WAS ALONG PARTY LINES:
225 TO 201.
THE U.S. AND U.N. CONDEMNED THE
SHELLING OF A U.N. SCHOOL IN
GAZA THAT WAS SHELTERING WAR
REFUGEES, THE U.S. ECONOMY SHOOK
OFF THE WINTER BLUES AND GREW BY
4% IN THE SECOND QUARTER AND
AUTHORITIES IN LIBERIA SHUT
SCHOOLS AND QUARANTINED MORE
COMMUNITIES AS THE THREAT OF THE
DEADLY EBOLA VIRUS GREW.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW: IT'S A GOOD
THING FOR FANS OF SOUL MUSIC
THAT CURTIS HARDING DIDN'T
PURSUE HIS ORIGINAL DREAM-- TO
BECOME AN OCEANOGRAPHER.
GROWING UP IN A FAMILY OF
MUSICIANS DEFINITELY LEFT ITS
MARK ON HIM, AND NOW HE'S
RELEASED HIS FIRST SOLO ALBUM,
"SOUL POWER."
YOU CAN WATCH HIM PERFORM A SONG
FROM THAT, ON ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE: newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, THE HOUSE VOTES ON
AN IMMIGRATION BILL, BUT THE
PROSPECT OF CAPITOL HILL COMING
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.